>> Mike North: Next, we're going to apply
a TypeScript compiler feature called
TypeScript Project References,
which is related to composite projects.
And this will improve the performance
of our TypeScript builds.
Now, in this workshop project, the builds
are fast, there's just not much code here.
But this will make a huge difference
in a monorepo of significant size.
And it's really easy to set up.
So the first thing we need
to do is think about.
We need to think a little bit
about a dependency graph and
we need to understand
what's depending on what.
So we will need to,
in the Models folder in the TSCONFIG
build JSON,
because this is really a build feature,
we're going to have to go into the
compiler options and say composite true.
What we're doing here is we're
enabling this project to be
compiled in a way where you can have
a piece of build information for
this package, or really for
like TypeScript would regard this as
a project like a TS config refers
to some collection of source code.
Anyway, this project is going
to have a build file that can be
stitched together with other pieces
of build information to allow
rebuilds to happen more incrementally.
And just remember what our baseline is.
Yes, we are sharing some code, right,
we're benefiting from some
consolidated compile stuff.
Like there is one dist folder for
the models package,
and anyone using the models package
points to that dist folder.
But the downside here is anytime
we touch anything in a package,
that whole package is being rebuilt.
So this composite project and
project references in these TSBUILD
info files, they allow even more
incremental compiling at the module
level rather than at the package level.
Again, your project gets big enough,
you will notice a big difference here.
In fact, if you're not using this and
you have a sizable monorepo,
this is absolutely the first
thing you should invest in.
So composite true, in fact,
we're gonna add this to all the package
JSONs of everything in our monorepo.
Sorry, the tsconfig build JSONs,
not the package JSONs.
So there's the server and
we'll add it to the ui.
And just because of how vite works,
this tsconfig is what's used for build.
And so we're going to.
We'll add it here.
Great, now we need to
establish references.
These have to do with edges
on your dependency graph, and
I want you to think about them as going
hand in hand with something like this.
If you have a workspace dependency,
you should also be establishing a project
reference to go along with that.
Now your build won't fail if you're
missing this project reference, but
this is what you need in order to
get that kind of speed up factor.
Here's what it looks
like you're going to have
as a top level property of the TS
configs you're using to build.
And again we're in the UI one, so there's
no build here, but that's what it's for.
And we're going to create a references
array with one item in it and
it's the path to build JSON.
This file doesn't exist yet,
but it will in a moment.
So this is gonna be sort of our build, our
incremental build artifact, if you will.
I'm going to copy this because I'll
need something very similar in
the server package or tsconfig
Build JSON and it's top level property.
Too many commas turns out
same relative path models.
Tsconfig build JSON.
Now I just ran PNPM builds and
it built everything.
Here's our models, our server and our ui.
And we get these files now and you can
see just there's a lot of information
here about which declaration
files are used and
what your dependencies are and
what version of everything is being used.
This effectively is what it means
to have these proxy references.
Now, unless we're working with
something of substantial size,
we're not going to see
a speed up factor here.
But trust me, it's there and
you will know it's working for
you when you apply this
to a large project.
And you can see especially that
incremental rebuild time is faster and
the incremental build time, sorry,
the way incremental compilation affects
the performance of your language server,
that's also going to be important.
That's affected by this.
And so that's where you're
gonna hover over things.
Or in those cases where your language
server's lagging behind a little bit and
you're seeing the red squiggles and
it's still figuring out that you
installed this thing,
it really tightens that up significantly.
>> Student 1: So
the idea here is when we edit the server,
it's not reevaluating anything in models,
right, it's just using cache.
>> Mike North: Yet, sorry, let me,
I'm gonna do a little experiment here.
We're not going to commit this because
I typically don't commit these build
info files.
But I want to see if we
can spot what changes
that might be a good way to
look at this models perfect.
All right, so I just made a fairly trivial
change and let's look at the build and,
all right, so first off,
you can see like two things happened.
One is you can see server was affected.
There's something happened here and
something happened in model.
So there's a sense that server's
like exposed to this change.
Gosh, we're not gonna make
any change sense out of this.
All right,
you're gonna have to take my word for it.
The difference in terms of what's
happening here is in this build info
file is more of a sense that this one
module changed and we're preserving
all of the compiled results of whatever
can be preserved within this package,
as opposed to rebuilding this
entire package from scratch.
Every time you hit the save button and
just think about what's happening when we
run our dev script, we're like, anytime
we change something and we hit save,
what's happening is that whole
package is being rebuilt from scratch.
There's no state that's being
preserved between builds.
This represents state being
preserved between builds and
an opportunity to reuse some of the state
that can be safely reused given
the scope of the change that
you made when you hit save.
And so it's really like slimming
down to closer to the minimum amount
of work that's necessary in order
to create an updated build output.
>> Student 1: If you
didn't add that reference,
what would the behavior be in
the original tsconfig to the models?
>> Student 2: It would
rebuild the whole thing.
>> Mike North: It would
rebuild the whole project.
You'd end up with something new.
So the contents of the dist folder
are going to be the same in either case.
But the difference is what is the work
required in order to get there before I
added project references.
It's similar to compiling it for
the first time.
It's as if you have nothing
in your dist folder.
It's just building
everything from scratch.
You can think of this as almost having
an intermediate result where certain files
that I didn't touch.
And it's not really by file because
obviously this is changing too.
But like certain parts of the package
that were left unperturbed,
we can reuse the build output
from the last build as sort
of an advanced starting point for
creating that new build.
So the increment of work that's required
to get the same build output is
significantly smaller.
Does that make sense?
>> Student 1: Yeah.
>> Mike North: It's more like an edit to
the build, as opposed to throwing away and
recreating.
>> Student 1: I think my confusion
came from aren't you already
importing a built dist of
models into the server?
They're already separated and
that's already built.
So I'm just struggling to understand
where the savings come from.
>> Mike North: That's a great point.
Remember when we're saying we're
importing when we're in load data and
we're saying, I've got the seed packet
collection model from here, I want you to
think of this more as like instructions
of where to look when compiling.
There's nothing here in
terms of preserving work.
And so,
ultimately this is just directions for
finding the thing that
we're interested in.
Like, where can I find this thing?
If you remember when we were messing with,
with this folder here,
remember when we were messing with
these and when I took them away,
it couldn't find the module,
the dependency link was broken.
It's because all this is,
all the import statements are.
It's really just instructions for
finding something that exists
in a Node Modules folder somewhere now,
so that's one thing.
Another thing is what is
the work required to produce
an updated dist folder based
on changes to source code?
What we just did here by
adding tsproject references,
it's the difference between deleting
that dist folder, starting completely
fresh with no knowledge of previous
builds, and doing the exact same amount of
work to recompile build models as we
did to build it the very first time.
So that was our starting point.
And now we're more at the point where,
well, we have a lot of
bits of compiled data for other things
that might be in that package and
some portion of that we can reuse that
represents work that is already done and
that reduces the,
the amount of new work that we have to do.
And the amount of new work we have to
do is much more closely related to
the scope of the change, which is like
it's still always at the file level.
So you're not recompiling
a function within the file,
you're creating a new compiled output for
that module.
But it's sort of like incremental compile
at the module level instead of at
the package level.
And the bigger your packages are, and the
more of them there are in your monorepo,
the more this is going to
make a difference for you.
One last thing, Git, Ignore these.
As you can see, they are just junk.
Those are files for
programs to understand.
Don't commit these bedtime.
It'll just always change all the time.